We'll come back.
And previously we were looking at on click and we're using them as attributes within each team.
So there's actually a way to do the same thing.
And as we saw we can traverse through and we can pick up different elements information throughout the
dorm and we also saw earlier that we could use different builtin methods that are already in the DOM
so such as alert and prompt and so on so we can actually do the same thing where we can grab this functionality
and set it up only using javascript.
So we don't have to actually have any of these javascript objects or Javascript functions sitting within
our h t M-L we can completely separate.
So let's give it some ideas because again we're going to need a way to identify so give it the 1 2 and
3 and this is going to be this is going to be treated the exact same way.
So whether we've got it as an on click within the aged hymnal within the attributes or whether we have
it here we're reregistering it as an on click for that particular element.
It's the same thing.
So here we can do document and we need to use or get element by id and we're grabbing those ideas.
And then within here we're adding on click.
So just as we saw earlier where we could get the value and so on were actually grabbing the on click
and basically it returns the event handler of that particular element that we've selected.
And we saw that all of those elements had event handlers.
So it doesn't return it back has a street value.
We need to have a function here.
On the other end of it.
In order for it to be able to do something.
So we've got our function that gets triggered whenever this one gets clicked.
And for now let's just change the value of output.
So do H.E. and Mehl and to work at.
So let's see what happens when we refresh it.
And now when I click it we see that we're updating that enraged him.
So basically this function is firing off and giving us the ability to update the Tim L.
And of course we haven't added any event handlers yet to any one of these other buttons but we can do
the same thing and depending on what you want to do it may or may not be easier just to simply add in
the on click within the element attribute or if you want to keep the separation from your element attributes
from h him out to your javascript and maybe have a J.S. file that you're linking to then maybe this
is the way to go by adding it in to your javascript.
So there are two options.
They're both registered within the same way.
So they're both working through the dawn.
This one is being set up within the dorm when the page initiates.
And this one we're adding it in just as we did anything else when we were updating content and information
within the dorm itself after it's been loaded.
So what happens if you want to just simply pass it over to a function so we can copy over this within
the function and let's add in the function.
So with the function we know that's when we type out the function itself.
So let's open up the console again and I'm going to go back in here.
And we know that when we do my fun with out the rounded brackets it's different than my fun with the
rounded brackets.
And then when we do it with the rounded brackets basically we've got function my fun and then we've
got the code that's in there.
And the difference is that we have the rounded brackets that means that that function executes right
away where as when we just use the value of the function.
That basically means that whenever this gets executed then we're going to trigger the contents of my
function.
So you're probably wondering well what happened to this.
What am I going to do.
Where is this now.
Because I don't have a way to pass that in here.
Well not to worry because this is actually also being passed so if console log out and if I place this
within here we're going to see that when I refresh the page and if I open up my console and I click
it we're actually passing in that same element information.
So if I do console directory
and refresh the page click it and open it up.
We see that we've got that same information and when we go down we see we've got all of that same that
click event is still there.
So it's registered within the same way.
So both of those ways work and we can pass the same information using either one of them.
It just depends on what works better for you in the situation when you're coding it and how you plan
to access and add in that event handler.
So what I want you to do now is pause the video and update the value of click.
And update it to be clicked once the button gets clicked.
So positive and I'll show you the solution coming up.
So if you had an opportunity to try that out and we know that last time the solution was really easy
and this time again the solution is going to be really easy.
So all we have to do is use this again because we've already accessed that as an object.
We've already passed it.
When we selected that particular element.
And now we just need to use this because this is that current active object that triggered this event
the event handler.
So we know where it is and now when we go back to the page and we click the button we see that we can
update the value within the button as well to.
So what I want you to do now is open up your editor and take the code from one of the earlier exercises
where we're using on click and bring it in to a function and add it in.
Only using javascript so get it out of that each Tamal and out added into the javascript.
Try it for yourself and see if you can get that code only within javascript so nothing within the attributes
of your age.
Tim.
And we've got plenty of earlier exercises where we're using the on click event within an attribute in
the age Timo.